<div class="collapsible" style="display: inline-flex; align-items: center; justify-content: left; border-radius: 5px; padding: 0px 15px; margin-bottom: 10px; background-color: #ffffffff; color: black;">

  <div style="margin-right: 15px;">
    <b>This is an archived site </b> of <a href="https://luminespire.github.io/dusk/">Dusk</a> by <a href="https://github.com/Aorta3698">Zoe Winters</a> and is no longer maintained. <a href="https://github.com/luminespire/dusk/blob/main/README.md">Learn more here</a>.
  </div>

  <span class="close" style="cursor: pointer; font-size: 24px; font-weight: bold; position: relative;">&times;</span>

</div>

<script>
  const banner = document.querySelector('.collapsible');
  const closeButton = banner.querySelector('.close');

  if (localStorage.getItem('bannerClosed') === 'true') {
    banner.style.display = 'none';
  }

  closeButton.addEventListener('click', (event) => {
    banner.style.display = 'none';
    localStorage.setItem('bannerClosed', 'true');
  });
</script>


# 6 Weeks in (2024-06-05)
## Main Criticism

I reached 8X WPM on English 10k 2 min test a while back and have been practicing Quotes instead,
and I honestly do _not_ like Dusk as it (p.s. I didn't end up alting `'ll`).

There are two main glaring issues that I have noticed while practicing quotes:
### Hand Imbalance
When typing quotes at about 100 WPM with the presence of `',.`, 
I can't help but notice that my right hand is doing 
significantly more work than my left hand. 

On e10k, this is not an issue, but I am not really fine with it on quotes.

### `haei` + Vowel Space
Too many common words in quotes are redirects and it annoys me at high speed.
- `the<spc>`
- `he<spc>`
- `she<spc>`
- `hi<spc>`

Despite maining Dusk and practicing on MonkeyType everyday for at least 1 hour in the past month,
my right thumb still can't handle redirect nearly as fast as my left thumb. In partcular,
redirects are 2 letter outroll followed by the last letter inroll.

## Minor Criticism
These are things that I have hoped that I'd get used to, but didn't really happen.

### `pr`/`rp`
I really do not vibe with `rp` or `pr` and they are somewhat common. Maybe my hand is just too small.

### High Alt
Dusk as is now is still too high alternation for my taste, mostly attributed to the fact that 
most words end with a letter on the left hand side and space is on the right thumb. 


## What now?
I am swapping `<spc>r`.

It fixes all the issues that I listed above and I am not bothered by the redirects that used to bother
me such as `earlier` anymore. They are still funny to type though, but I can type them at 1XX WPM now.

I already returned to 75 WPM (e10k, 2 min) on day 2 of switching back to vowel R.


## Takeaway
- It is likely not worth it to switch your space thumb just to learn a layout.
- Dusk really isn't that great and I can only conditionally recommend it. 
That is, 
  - if you are already using vowel thumb space with `h` on the index, then you likely won't agree with my complaints here; Dusk is probably good for you.
  - however, if you are using non-vowel thumb space like I did _and_ if you are bothered by thumb redirects, then Dusk (and honestly lots of other thumb layouts too) is **_not_** for you 
(no matter which thumb you space Dusk, you will always end up with thumb redirect.)

